Blog:How OpenRouter Unlocked Our Workshop Strategy (#3726)
block/goose: documentation/blog/2025-07-29-openrouter-unlocks-workshops/index.md

But we hit a thorny challenge: while Goose is free, high-performing LLMs are not.

<!--truncate-->

Free, local open source models exist, but the experience is variable and often requires high-end hardware. Many local models struggle with tool calling or have small context windows. It would be unfair to ask people to pay out of pocket just to try the tool.

## Existing Solutions We Considered

Our team initially looked into covering LLM usage costs. After talking to other organizations, here's what we found. People either:

* Manually distributed API keys  
* Used one shared API key  
* Relied on a partnership with a provider for credits

For our small but scrappy team, these options felt insecure, inflexible, and unscalable. We were concerned that people would steal and misuse shared API keys, or that credits might not get distributed evenly. Manually sharing API keys would be tedious and time-consuming, taking away from the depth of the meetup.

## Discovering OpenRouter

> When I came back from parental leave, I was ready to jump back in and tackle this problem head-on. I started by teaming up with Alex Hancock, an MCP steering committee member and Goose OSS developer, on planning our first-ever meetup in Boston. My boss, Angie Jones, suggested the meetup would be the perfect moment to get people's hands on Goose.

Author: ```suggestion
When I came back from parental leave, I was ready to jump back in and tackle this problem head-on. I started by teaming up with Alex Hancock, an MCP steering committee member and Goose OSS engineer, on planning our first-ever meetup in Boston. My boss, Angie Jones, suggested the meetup would be the perfect moment to get people's hands on Goose.
```

* Create individual API keys on demand  
* Set specific credit limits per key ($5 per participant)  
* Manage and disable keys as needed  
* Support any model available through their platform  
* Avoid the chaos of shared or static keys

## Building the Web App

I built a simple web app around OpenRouter's API. Attendees could visit a link, click a button, and instantly get their own temporary API key. They could plug that into Goose and start building without having to set up an account on OpenRouter.

```shell
curl -X POST https://openrouter.ai/api/v1/keys \
     -H "Authorization: Bearer <PROVISIONARY API KEY>" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
  "name": "string"
}'
```

And it worked. People *actually* used Goose and loved the entire experience, from the meetup to the talks to Goose itself.

We've now hosted meetups in Sydney, Berlin, Boston, Atlanta, San Francisco, Texas, and New York. You can read about our past experiences in our [Boston](/blog/2025-03-21-goose-boston-meetup/index.mdx) and [New York](/blog/2025-04-17-goose-goes-to-NY/index.mdx) blog posts.

## Upcoming Denver Workshop

We're bringing this hands-on Goose workshop to Denver on August 5.

> Join us for an evening in collaboration with Temporal and Dagger, where you'll get free API credits, build something tangible with Goose, and learn in-depth about Model Context Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Join us for an evening in collaboration with Temporal and Dagger, where you'll get free API credits, build something tangible with Goose, and learn in-depth about MCP.
```

did the long form earlier. get some seo juice with the acronymn now

Author: good point

## Why This Approach Matters

As more developers experiment with local agents and bring-your-own-model setups, we need infrastructure that matches that flexibility without compromising control. The combination of flexible API providers and programmatic key management might just be the missing piece in your event strategy.

Want us to run a Goose workshop or hackathon? We’ll bring the API credits. You bring the builders. 

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="How OpenRouter Unlocked Our Workshop Strategy" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="article" />
  <meta property="og:url" content="https://block.github.io/goose/blog/2025/07/29/openrouter-unlocks-workshops" />
  <meta property="og:description" content="How we used Open Router to provide frictionless LLM access for Goose workshops" />

>   <meta property="og:image" content="https://block.github.io/goose/assets/images/ai-to-ai-dc88f565e573f0825a4fde3c522d2b8b.png" />

Reviewer: fix url here and on line 99
